---
layout: post
title: Why I Chose Coding

---

I started college in 2002, unknowingly, I finished in 2003.

I grew up in California where school wasn't terribly expensive for residents. With obvious exceptions, you could expect to get the same quality of education throughout the entire state school system. Even more so in the junior colleges; I began what would have been a 2 year degree paying around $10 a credit (my memory is hazy on this), which means that I was a full time student for a couple hundred dollars. Even if my life's goal was to eventually leave California and go off to see other parts of the world, my plan was to invest a few years in my home state, getting my associate's degree, transferring to a four year school and -- I didn't have a plan really, I was just going to do what I *should* do.

Plans change though, and after a few months I went from being a student in California to arranging an apartment in Illinois via faxes and phone calls, it wouldn't be the last time I picked up and moved to a new state, sight unseen. I packed up enough of my bedroom to live in a one bedroom apartment (no couch), took my savings, and made my way to Chicago. I got the first job I could get, which was in retail, one of my first manager's told me "There's always work in retail." I was going to take a semester off while I padded my finances and then start school as soon as I could. Except I had severely underestimated my finances. Unlike California, where the state's education money is spent on the schools and you could attend at a reasonable rate; Illinois (don't quote me on this, it's what I heard, and remember, there's that hazy memory thing) spent it's education money on the students. Giving loans and grants to people and creating competition amongst the schools, so the education, and price, varied. My first semester would have cost me over $5,000, school was going to have to wait.

I did my retail job well and I got a promotion, I figured I'd keep doing that until I made enough money to get to school. Now, in 2017, I've been in retail management for 13 years and I'm at the peak of my options. Being a store manager meant I had to have an open schedule, so I couldn't really make enough time to attend classes regularly, so after telling myself for 3 or 4 years that "**this** is the year I'll start school", I settled into retail work. I was making the median American salary at the age of 23, with my wife, who was also a retail manager, we were earning a comfortable living... for two young people.

That manager was right, "there's always work in retail", but there isn't always growth. The potential for career growth isn't there, my wages are pretty maxed out, and you add to the fact that retail [is facing ever growing competition from online shopping](http://www.nasdaq.com/press-release/online-retailers-thrive-as-brick-and-mortar-retailers-struggle-20170817-00687) and it's clear that I need to do something else. I need to find a career in a growing field, I need a career that has ample opportunity, I need a "future proof" career. Even non tech jobs nowadays want people with experience in coding languages, so the writing is on the wall. I've tried to teach myself coding before, but it just didn't stick, and I still don't have the time to commit to all day bootcamps, that's why I joined [Bloc](https://www.bloc.io/). The ability to work on coding at my pace, on my free time, with the added help so that I could really have a chance to absorb new and difficult concepts is what's going to let me learn the skills to, instead of just "having a job", actually starting a career.
