---
layout: post
title: My Experience With Bloc
---

I've always been a "practice makes perfect" person, I've always had to "do" things for me to learn them. Listening to someone explain it lets concepts pass me by, trying to read about it bogs me down in terminology. I need to try it, I need to understand *why* I'm doing the things that I'm doing. If I can know the why, maybe I can remind myself on the how.

This is why I was never able to self teach myself code. I would invariably reach some language, or technique that I wasn't getting. I wouldn't know enough about the work I was doing to fix my problem, and I would just give up. I've tried Java courses, C+, and I remember when HTML5 came out, I thought "maybe I can learn this thing and I can go get a job." I didn't even understand what I would be learning, and what kind of job I could get, I just thought it was something I could do (I never even looked into HTML 5).

Because of my schedule I could never go to a full time bootcamps. I have a full time job, and a family that demand time, and I couldn't make 8-10 hour lab days fit into my life. Which is why I was happy to find Bloc.

I had to get on the slowest track Bloc has to offer, so my learning timeline hasn't been as speedy as some other dev bootcamps promote themselves to be. But, for the way I learn and work, this is the best quality education I could have imagined. Some of the curriculum checkpoints were straight to the point, and easy to pick up. As the curriculum goes forward it builds on your previous knowledge, and Bloc does a good job of setting you up for familiarity with the code. If I got stuck, however, my mentor was available for help. That was the missing component for my previous failed coding attempts. The opportunity to speak with someone, to dive into the lesson so that I could understand the *why* of what I was doing.

I went in thinking it would be a breeze, I'd read some documentation, play on my computer, and write code in a snap. I was quickly proven wrong of that idea. I struggled a lot during my time learning Ruby on Rails, it felt like I was learning **so many** new terms, that I had a hard time recalling them. I found myself doubting what I knew. If I figured something out too quickly, or I wrote code that seemed to work easily, I assumed I must be doing something wrong. If I was certain I knew what I was doing, but constantly had errors that I couldn't figure out, then I decided "I must be confused about what I know". My mentor was always there to assure me that I was on the right path. He'd get me to realize that what I thought must be wrong, was actually the correct way to do something. He helped fill in the gaps when I swore I was right, but my code wasn't working (it was usually just a spelling or syntax error that he caught.)

I'm almost done with the course work, I still have a lot to learn, and sometimes I feel like I've forgotten simple concepts and I'll never "get it back", I'll probably suffer from [imposter syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome) for years. But going through Bloc has shown me that those thoughts are normal. Everyone has them, I'll never know everything there is to know about coding, but I know I can keep working to learn. I can keep expanding my knowledge and technique, Bloc has given me the tools to know how to fix my problems, and it's shown me it's ok to seek help. Unless someone can devote 12, 16, 24 weeks to coding full time I think Bloc is the best option for learning to code, and doing it while still living a "normal" life.
